# RandomWalk

This is a simple Python simulation API that generates some beautiful random walks using the Matplotlib library.

This project is based on a guided project in [Eric Matthes's 2023 book](https://www.google.com/search?q=python+crash+course+by+eric+matthes), _Python Crash Course (Third Edition)_, with several modifications, including enhanced customizability.

## Features

- Simulates a step-by-step random walk in a Matplotlib graph
- Separates x and y movement logic
- Supports custom distances and directions for each axis
- Allows for a highly customizable graph
- Object-oriented and easy to extend
- Suitable for experiments, simulations, or visualizations

## How it works

Each step in the walk is generated by `rw_generator.py` by randomly choosing:
- an x-direction and x-distance
- a y-direction and y-distance
from the lists defined in `RandomWalk.walk` attributes.

`random_walk.py` creates an instance of the generator and plots the values on a graph.
A new set of values is generated each time `RandomWalk.build()` is called (which calls `RWGenerator.fill_walk()`).

Graph properties and walk behaviour settings are defined in `rw_graph_properties.py` and `rw_settings` respectively.
These settings can be directly accessed from a `RandomWalk` instance.

`RandomWalk` has six attributes:
- `RandomWalk.walk` — a `Walk` object that controls walk behviour (walk values generation)
- `RandomWalk.graph` — a `Graph` object that controls general Matplotlib properties
- `RandomWalk.points` — a `Points` object that controls point properties if `Randomwalk.graph.type_ = 'scatter'`
- `RandomWalk.line` — a `Line` object that controls line properties if `Randomwalk.graph.type_ = 'line'`
- `RandomWalk.fig` and `RandomWalk.ax`, which are the Matplotlib `Figure` and `Axes` objects

## Example usage

```
from random_walk import RandomWalk

if __name__ == '__main__':
    rw = RandomWalk()

    rw.walk.set(
        steps=80_000,
        xdistances=[5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15],
        ydistances=[5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15],
    )
    rw.graph.set(
        type_='scatter',
        figsize=(10, 6),
        dpi=128,
        style='seaborn-v0_8',
        hide_axes=True,
    )
    rw.points.set(
        alpha=1,
        size=1,
        colorful=True,
        colormap='plasma',
    )
    rw.line.set(
        linewidth=0.5
    )

    while True:
        rw.build()
        rw.show()
```

See the documentation within `rw_graph_properties.py` and `rw_settings` for more customizable attributes.

`RandomWalk.build()` also returns a tuple of the Matplotlib `Figure` and `Axes` instances to allow for even further control over the graph.

Note that `RandomWalk.line` attributes only take effect if `RandomWalk.graph.type_` is set to `'line'`. This is the same for `RandomWalk.points` (attributes take effect if set to `'scatter'`).

Tip: You can use `RandomWalk.graph.set(type_='line')` to simulate [Brownian motion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brownian_motion)!

## Project structure

- `random_walk.py` — main script; contains the `RandomWalk` class
- `rw_generator.py` — controls movement logic (generates plot coordinates)
- `rw_graph_properties.py` — controls Matplotlib graph settings; imported from main script
- `rw_settings.py` — controls random walk behaviour settings; imported from main script to be passed to the `RWGenerator` instance
- `run_me.py` — example usage

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
